We've spoken previously about security and software supply chains, and we're back at it
on this episode. We're diving in again with Charlie Coggins. Charlie works at a software
supply chain company and is on the episode to give us an insider's look and a defender's
perspective on how to keep our Python apps and infrastructure safe. This is Talk Python to Me,
episode 457, recorded January 24th, 2024. Welcome to Talk Python to Me, a weekly podcast on Python.
This is your host, Michael Kennedy. Follow me on Mastodon, where I'm @mkennedy, and follow the
podcast using @talkpython, both on mastodon.org. Keep up with the show and listen to over seven
years of past episodes at talkpython.fm. We've started streaming most of our episodes live on
YouTube. Subscribe to our YouTube channel over at talkpython.fm/youtube to get notified about
upcoming shows and be part of that episode. This episode is brought to you by Sentry. Don't let
those errors go unnoticed. Use Sentry like we do here at Talk Python. Sign up at talkpython.fm/sentry.
And it's brought to you by Mailtrap, an email delivery platform that developers love. Use their
email sandbox to inspect and debug emails in staging, dev, and QA environments before sending
them to recipients in production. Try Mailtrap for free at talkpython.fm/mailtrap. Hey, Charlie,
welcome to Talk Python To Me. Hi, Michael. Great to have you here. We have corresponded back and
forth about security things. And now, are you here to scare us? Is that what's going to happen?
It's going to seem that way. There are threats everywhere, especially when you start looking.
And that's the problem. You look, you'll find them. If you're not looking, you might get
affected without even knowing it. Yeah, but that's true. But we're also going to come with
some tools and techniques and tips on how to avoid security problems with your Python code.
Yes, absolutely. Yeah. I think it's especially concerning. That certainly catches my attention
that if you mess with somebody's software, like the software builders, the developers,
it gets shipped to however many users are on the other side of that equation, right? It's not like
I just took over some teenager's gaming PC and now what can I do? It's like, I took over, name
your big web app, and now we're going to start shipping some stuff around. All right. That's
where the multiplicative aspect of this gets more concerning than just standard personal computer
safety, right? Oh, absolutely. A single developer can have very broad impacts. Maybe they publish
one package, but that one package could be included in hundreds, thousands of other packages as a
dependency. And then everyone using those packages could be affected. Whether the code is good and
works as intended or poorly written and has bugs and vulnerabilities. Yeah. It's malicious.
It's not to say there's any chance of there being a problem with Pydantic, but just to make your
point, if you go to like Pydantic or request or something like that, a lot of these have
used by projects, right? And this Pydantic is used by 315,000 people, not people, software
projects that themselves have users, right? And so that's the kind of stuff that I'm thinking
about when I said that multiplicative effect, right? It's a big multiplier, not just a couple.
Oh yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Now, before we dive into our main topic, of course,
tell people a bit about yourself. All right. Well, my name is Charles Coggins. I usually go by
Charlie and I'm a Python developer. I'm a software developer, but not through the traditional sense.
I don't have a computer science degree. I didn't come to this straight out of school. I got my
first taste of programming long enough ago, back in the '80s, in 1987. My dad got a computer for
us and I was messing around on there with some games, always with games, right? When at the time
it was basic, it was this bowling game that my brother and I would play. And I saw that I could
look at the code, I could look at the source. And I went in there and modified it a bit to make it
so that I would always win whenever I played them. But then-
How long did it take him to catch on?
Oh, he figured out pretty quickly. And he was in there too, changing ball speed and how often he
could get a gutter or make him get a gutter. But yeah, I took a class or two in high school and
college, but I was an electrical engineering major and then went to work for the government
doing something that wasn't even really that. So I spent 10 years working for the government before
they stood up the US Cyber Command and decided or figured out that they needed to hire 6,000 new
developers to fill the positions. And there weren't that many available in the industry,
let alone those who could pass the clearances and work in that environment. So they looked to
people already working in the government and I raised my hand. I said, "Yes, yes, I want to
cross-train. I'll be a developer." And so they trained me.
What did they teach you for language in that program?
We started with C, C++, and then there was some Python. So I went through a couple of boot camps
and a lot of self-learning, self-teaching. Python's the one that really clicked for me.
It just made sense in my head.
Yeah, of course. If you're learning to do cybersecurity stuff, you know, a lot of times
I'd be happy to tell people like, "Ah, you don't really need to learn C or Rust or Java." If you
just know Python, you're probably 90% of the time golden. But if you're trying to do cybersecurity,
a lot of times it's about the machine level stuff, right? Understanding things like C and
pointers and buffer overflows and all of that kind of stuff is where you actually kind of need to be.
And they taught us all that as well. In fact, we learned assembly language as well,
and that one really didn't fit in my brain.
You're like, "I want to become an assembly language programmer."
I mean, yeah, that's a whole different breed.
Yeah, it sure is. And it used to be, I remember when I first got into programming, I was doing
some C, C++, and inline assembly was something people would do a lot to optimize. A lot like
people might do Cython or Numba or something like that to make Python fast. Like, "We'll find this
little part and we'll rewrite it in this way." And be like, "We're just going to do inline
assembly." I'm like, "That just doesn't seem like worthwhile. I don't need that much performance.
We're going to not do that."
Fun. So now you're working at Phylum. Is it Python-focused or just software security?
It's not Python-focused. In fact, the company primarily develops with Rust, as you were
mentioning. We've got some excellent Rust developers at our company, and I think that's
what's attracted a lot of them is that that is the primary language we use. But we also have some
developments in Python. And when I came on board, I got assigned to work on our integrations.
So like GitHub integrations, GitLab, pre-commit hooks, things like that. And so I was able to
kind of architect it the way I thought best. And because I love Python, I made it all in Python and
exposed it through Docker containers.
Are you doing direct integration with Rust, like Py03? Or is it more just issuing commands out?
The Rust elements that our company works on, like our API, the command line interface,
a lot of the backend, it's just written straight Rust. And then the Python is just plain Python.
There's no interface between the two, really.
Yeah. Okay. Consuming APIs and Docker containers and stuff like that.
Right, right, right. Although I am interested in the Py03, and I think there's room to
bridge the two languages at our company.
I mean, for sure, people are adopting Rust for the performance foundations of Python.
It's pretty interesting.
Yeah, yeah. I've been at the company almost two years now. I keep saying it's what I'm
going to learn next, is Rust. And I felt like I would just kind of absorb it by going through
code reviews and the people on my team. It hasn't happened yet. I can kind of understand what's
going on by reading it, but I just, yeah, I need to jump in.
Deaf in, deaf, okay, got it. Those are the same. Okay, got it.
Yeah, yeah.
No, it's interesting. Okay. Well, we're not here to talk about Rust, although I do think
it's becoming one of those things that is sort of, I don't know, if you need to be a little
one level deeper in the Python space, that used to be C, and now it's, I think it's pretty solidly
moving to be Rust, right? There's a lot of popular things,
gigantic, for example, I pulled up earlier, where that's the foundation,
but that also seems to be where the momentum is.
Yeah. The oxidation of Python libraries is a real thing. I mean, look at Ruff.
Yeah. Ruff. I just heard about how Granian, I think it was, which is a new, similar to
G-Unicorn and MicroWSGI is a Rust-based async server. It goes on and on.
This portion of Talk Python to Me is brought to you by OpenTelemetry support at Sentry.
In the previous two episodes, you heard how we use Sentry's error monitoring at Talk Python,
and how distributed tracing connects errors, performance and slowdowns and more
across services and tiers. But you may be thinking, our company uses OpenTelemetry,
so it doesn't make sense for us to switch to Sentry. After all, OpenTelemetry is a standard,
and you've already adopted it, right? Well, did you know, with just a couple of lines of code,
you can connect OpenTelemetry's monitoring and reporting to Sentry's backend. OpenTelemetry
does not come with a backend to store your data, analytics on top of that data, a UI,
or error monitoring. And that's exactly what you get when you integrate Sentry with your
OpenTelemetry setup. Don't fly blind, fix and monitor code faster with Sentry. Integrate your
OpenTelemetry systems with Sentry and see what you've been missing. Create your Sentry account
at talkpython.fm/sentry-telemetry. And when you sign up, use the code TALKPYTHON, all caps,
no spaces. It's good for two free months of Sentry's business plan, which will give you
20 times as many monthly events as well as other features. My thanks to Sentry for supporting
Talk Python to me. All right, well, let's talk about software security, though. You know, like,
we touched on it a little bit with the multiplicative aspect of like why software
developers should care. But maybe let's start with some ways in which viruses might get on
your computer from a software perspective. Not from like, "Oh, you know, I found this cool app
on BitTorrent and normally it's paid, but this one's free." It's like, "Hmm, maybe don't install
that." But, you know, not that kind of advice, right? But, you know, specifically for software
developers. Right, right. So for software developers, I think the primary
vector, you know, for malicious code running in your environment or really any developer
environment along the way, it doesn't just have to be your system. It could be your CI/CD servers
and your runners. It's going to be software dependencies, third-party code, right?
Code from strangers on the internet, right? That's really what it boils down to.
They just, Charlie, they're just here to help out. They're just giving you the code to help out.
They have no bad intentions. Right, right. Except for that one. That one over there, don't take it.
Yeah. And it's hard to tell, you know, what's good, what's bad. And I think we all rely on
third-party code. I mean, I think it's a rare company, rare project that writes everything
from scratch on their own without any dependencies. So that's a vector for sure, is allowing code from
strangers on the internet to run. I think like the name of the game, right, for attackers and
threat actors is arbitrary code execution. Like that's the key phrase, arbitrary code execution.
If I can get arbitrary code execution with this vulnerability, then I've won. I can attack your
score of nine or above. So right there. Yeah, exactly. And that's for vulnerabilities. That's
just, you know, poorly written code or code with bugs. But forget about vulnerabilities. I mean,
if you're an attacker, you're a threat actor, you've already got the perfect means to run
arbitrary code, to gain arbitrary code execution on a developer system. That's with third-party
dependencies. Open source software is just the perfect target for writing malware.
You're slipping malware into packages.
Now, when people hear this, we've talked about it enough. It actually came as quite a surprise
a few years ago. People theoretically knew that it could happen, but that it was happening is that
packages on package stores like PyPI and NPM and so on got published vulnerabilities that people
could then install and make part of theirs. But there's a whole software supply chain, right?
Maybe talk us through some of the different elements that make that up. Only one of which
is these libraries, right? That's right. That's right. So the software supply chain is, it's
really, it's using third-party code securely, as well as securing the end-to-end development process.
So that process is, you know, very broadly broken into three phases. You've got the source phase,
that's, you know, source control management systems, and then actual, actually coding,
developers coding on their systems, you know, committing to repositories.
Yeah. You know, you mentioned the dependencies like pip install this or that. There's also,
for many of the really popular IDs and editors, there's a whole massive array of variants,
levels of trusted plugins or extensions, right? As well.
That's right. Yeah. Like Visual Studio Code. That's what I use for my IDE. You know, it's got
an extensive extension ecosystem. Just about anything you want to do. I get a little pop-up
when I open a new project and it says, "Oh, I recognize you're using a YAML file. Do you want
to download this extension that will lint YAML files?" Right? Like, there's an extension for that.
Yeah. I got one for CVEs. It was like rainbow CSV syntax highlighter. So then I'm like,
"You know what? That's not really made by a trusted company. It's probably fine.
But I don't need my CSV files highlighted so much so that I'm willing to just like run
arbitrary code from a stranger on the internet."
That's right.
Right. And, you know, I use both PyCharm and VS Code and they both,
especially PyCharm, has sort of a warning that says, "This is untrusted. It's a third-party
thing. Are you sure you want it?" Like, you know, that's a pretty light warning.
And also they're not the same, right? Is it installed by a million people
used every day or is it for you the fourth person to use it? And it hasn't, you know,
had the experience of people going, "Why is it called opening a network socket? What's it doing?"
You know, something like that.
Yeah. Yeah. That's another entry point that you got to be careful about.
All right. Well, I cut you off. We're only in like square one of maybe nine.
Yeah. Yeah. Square one, source code, and then there's the build phase. That's where
you take the code, you take the commits that have gone into source control,
and you build something with it, right? This usually happens in, you know, your CI/CD systems,
GitHub, GitHub's and GitLabs of the world. And it's at that point where, you know,
your third-party dependencies get included and wrapped up into your artifacts, right?
Which brings us to the third stage of the software supply chain, which is the package and deploy
phase. That's where you're creating your artifacts and making them available to the world to use.
Could be anything. It could be a wheel for a library that other parts of your company use
to build software. It could be some app you ship. It could actually be a website, an API,
who knows, right?
Yeah. A Docker container. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
And then by the time you get to that, you know, the end of the supply chain and, you know,
the products or the packaged product that people are going to see and use and work with,
you know, you've baked in so many elements at that point, you know, from your third-party
dependencies to, you know, any other external resources that are getting called. So there's
lots of points along the way that it's possible to...
And one of the things that can be sneaky is, you know, it doesn't happen that often in Python,
but you're shipping like a Windows or a Mac app. There's a digital signature roof of,
we're going to sign this with our trusted certificate. So it doesn't even give you
any warnings. Like, look, this is, it's signed by the company. It is trusted. Here you go.
Pick it. Right. And somewhere upstream from that, there's an issue like with packages or other
things. Well, that issue is now that that problem is signed and verified as well.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, so you mentioned code signing, the research team at our company,
I mean, they're amazing, amazing group there. They're always finding new and novel attacks.
And when they found just this past week, involved something kind of cool where the attacker had
bundled up a valid Microsoft binary, had been signed by Microsoft, but they bundled it with
the DLL that was malicious. It was named something to be expected. Right. So when you run the
executable on the binary, you know, you could see that there's this Microsoft signs application
looking for permissions, looking to continue. And you think, oh yeah, great. Signed by Microsoft,
no problem. But then it uses this technique called like DLL search order hijacking
technique. Right. So if you have a DLL that's being called by the application more locally
than not, it's looking for the same directory. Yeah. It'll look like looking for the name of
the DLL in the same directory first, basically is what's happening. Right. Right. It shipped
their bad DLL with a good binary. So you pick something in system 32 that's got like a real
common name, like VC runtime, whatever, dot DLL, or, you know, some of the standard ones,
but then you completely reprogram it and stick it in there with that app. Or maybe not completely
because you need the app to not crash, but you give it some extra boost when it does something.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. In this case, they had just copied all the files needed for execution into
a new directory, including the known good binary, the known bad DLL, and then, you know,
it had everything it needed in that directory to run. And it looked like it was legitimate.
Right. A lot of the OS dependent, a lot of these OS checks are on the executable,
the system libraries that they use. Right. Right. Right. You'll see like this, this executable is
downloaded from the internet to show you want to run it. Like that doesn't say this executable,
which you trust is maybe possibly using a library that you downloaded. Like it doesn't say that.
Right. Yeah. Cause we could never get work done if there was that level of checking all over the
place. This is an updated somewhere. This portion of talk Python to me is brought to you by Mailtrap.
We're going to keep this super short. So please pay attention or you'll miss it. Mailtrap is an
email delivery platform that developers love. An email sending solution with industry best analytics,
SMTP, and email APIs and SDKs for major programming languages with 24/7 human support. What makes
them unique is their email sandbox. Use email sandbox to inspect and debug emails in staging
dev and QA environments before sending them to recipients in production. Try Mailtrap for free
at talkpython.fm/mailtrap. That's kind of the space that we're talking about, right? We've got
editors, we've got libraries that you use, CI/CD pipelines, containers are super interesting as
well, and all the tools to go with those. So let's talk through some of the posts that you've
written and also just selected about some of these things and maybe starting to the front of that
list there with lock files. Yeah. Okay. So yes, I wrote a blog post. I guess it's looking at the
date on your screen. It looks like it was over a year ago now. And probably seems like yesterday,
but no. Yeah, that's right. 2022 it was. So I'm sure the landscape has changed since then a bit,
and maybe there's some new players out there. But yeah, I think one thing you can do as a
developer, a big one I would recommend is use lock files for your dependencies, right? And
what's a lock file? Well, it's the fully resolved set of dependencies that are used
by your application, your package. And if nothing else, you should know what's going into your code,
right? Not just your direct code. Yeah, exactly. That's a bit of a challenge, right? And I think
I'll admit when I first got into Python, I didn't do this that well. And to me, it felt like probably
the biggest issue I might run into is instability in my app, right? Like for example, if I don't
pin a dependency, some new thing comes out, I reinstall it on a new computer, maybe it gets an
upgraded version, and there's some library that doesn't work, right? I mean, there's been certainly
popular libraries that just said, we're having a major version change and we're fixing the mistakes
we made 10 years ago, and these three functions are changing or whatever, right? That would break
it. But it could also be there's now a malicious version of library X, that's version two. But if
you pinned it on version one, even though it's bad, you're still not getting the bad one, at least
for a while, right? Absolutely, yes. So I think I gotta look it up. I always forget. PEP 665.
Okay. Yeah, PEP 665. It's a rejected PEP, unfortunately, but it was written by Brett
Cannon, some others. I know you've had Brett on the show a number of times. I love the stuff he
does. He really understands all of this. And it's kind of a shame this was rejected, but this PEP
tried to create a standard lock file format for Python. And if you look into the PEP a little
bit, there's some motivation about why you'd want to do this and four big reasons. And the third one
is one I really key on, which is that lock files allow for reproducibility. And reproducibility is
just more secure. I'm quoting here from the PEP, it says, "When you control exactly what files are
installed, you can make sure no malicious actor is attempting to slip nefarious code into your
application, i.e. some supply chain attacks. By using a lock file, which always leads to
reproducible installs, we can avoid certain risks entirely." And I mean, that's the name of the game.
That's what our company focuses on, which is avoiding those risks by ensuring you know which
dependencies you're using and you're knowing that those dependencies are benign or good,
doing no harm.
Even if there's something that happens, usually it's going to happen to a popular library because
you're using it, hence probably other people are using it other than type of squatting,
which we can talk about. But if you pin your dependencies, chances are these things only
stick around for a little while. It's not like, "Oh, they discovered it had been there for eight
months." It's like, "Oh my gosh, we heard about it. A few people got it and then we got rid of it."
Right?
Yes.
The folks at PyPA are pretty excellent. So it's to some degree a timing issue as well.
Yes. Vulnerabilities are different, right? That's what a lot of people focus on. A lot of the
tooling exists to discover vulnerabilities in your dependencies, which is good to know about those,
but those exist for a long time, right? You have CVEs for known vulnerabilities and they end up in
these databases and they're there for years. And if you're using old dependencies or maybe
transitive dependencies are using old ones and you're stuck on it, then you're going to be
exposed to those vulnerabilities. But what's different about-
Examples. Sorry. Examples of those include the WebP library not too long ago, right? That was
baked into Python and then also OpenSSL, right? So people discovered issues in those. Those are
baked into different aspects of Python or some of the libraries. And it's like, well, all of a
sudden there's this fire drill, which is different than somebody going, "I'm going to sneak a thing
into the library system." Right. And then it is a timing matter. So
malicious dependencies, that's a whole other story. Because if a malicious package is discovered,
there's not a CVE created for it. The package is just taken off of the registry. You report it to
good people at PyPI and they'll review the submission and take it down. I've done a few
of those myself and they're really fast, but there's still a window of time where
that malicious package, that malicious dependency is up and available. And that's-
Yeah. I do think pinning your dependency-
Often all that's needed.
Yeah, exactly. I do think having a pinned dependency there is worthwhile. Because if you
make a commit, your CI runs, et cetera, et cetera, right? The chances that you just bump the version
to this malicious thing is pretty low. Yeah, exactly. So yeah. And having version
ranges is not enough. You need to have explicit versions.
Let's talk more about these lock files then.
There's actually a bunch of choices these days. And Brett's PEP tried to make it less of a choice.
Say, "Well, it doesn't matter if you use hatch or pip or poetry or whatever, the outcome is the same."
And for reasons that I haven't learned enough about, I don't know why that didn't work. But
let's talk about what's out there now. Because there's a couple options at this point.
Sure. I think the... Yeah. So most Python developers are going to be most familiar with
pip, right? That's the standard. And pip has requirements files. And they're unique in the
lock file world because they can be named anything, right? Most other lock files have a defined name.
We're talking about Rust earlier. They're the gold standard for a lot of this stuff. And
they're very clear. They have cargo.lock. That's their lock file. You can't name it anything else.
Its contents are well-defined. It is what it is. But in Python with pip,
I mean, you could name it whatever you want. You know, dev requirements.txt. You could name it
cargo.lock, but it can contain Python dependencies in it.
Surprise. I'm not Rust.
Basically, you can just put more or less arbitrary commands that are sent to pip
in any text file, right? Which is more or less what it is. Yeah.
Yeah. Any command line option you can feed the pip, you can put in a requirements file.
It's cool because you can import by saying -r some other file.
Yes. Yes.
But it's also not...
Get the hierarchy that way.
Yeah. Yeah.
So there are some tools available to turn those loose requirements files,
the pip requirements files, into strict lock files, right? Where every entry is
pinned to a specific version. And pip itself can do it with the pip freeze command.
So that's the one most people know about. But that one's kind of not so great because it only
freezes the packages for the environment that you ran pip freeze in. And maybe you're trying to
publish your lock file for users of a different platform or system.
The other thing that I don't like about it is you want to put just the things you actually
use into your requirements file. Like I'm using HTTPX and Pydantic. That's it. But what it really
installs when you run that is the transitive closure of all those things, which is fine.
But you're not necessarily expressing that with just your requirements.txt, right?
Right. Yeah. Yeah. Your two packages could balloon to 100 dependencies. And that's not uncommon. It's
not even that bad. Like in the JavaScript ecosystem, the same handful of top level
dependencies could have two orders of magnitude explosion where you end up with thousands.
There's a really... Oh, gosh. I can't find it. You know what? I think it's on... I think I put
it on the Python bites. But there's a really funny... I want to be able to pull this up for
people so they can find it. There's a funny, funny thing that somebody did. Well, for some
definition of funny. They put... Somebody created an npm package called everything.
Yes. I saw this.
Everything becomes too much. The npm package chaos of 2024. An npm user named PatrickJS
launched a troll campaign with a package called everything, which depends on every package in npm.
Yeah. Yeah. I think it's the npm's the largest package registry out there. So, it's already
massive. I remember your early episodes, you would recount how many packages were on PyPI.
I don't even know. Are we past half a million?
Well, yeah. I remember it was a big deal. It got up to 100,000. And now it's probably,
what? 400,000? 500,000?
508,509 by rounding. Yeah. Half a million. Congratulations, world. Amazing.
I just added two new ones last week. So, I guess I made a huge difference in that number.
Nice.
Yeah. So, basically, the PyPI is awesome and it does a bunch of great stuff. And one of the
things I really like about working with PyPI is I don't need to teach people anything if they want
to work with my project. I don't need to teach them like, "Oh, I know you love poetry, but I'm
using a combination of the Hatch build backend with PDM." You're like, "What? I don't even know
what those are." There's a lot of ways in which you work that are brought in with a lot of these
tools here. So, PyPI is kind of like, it just kind of works, right?
Yes.
But having this transitive closure managed is not part of what it does, but it's super important
because if I need to upgrade something, I can't just change my version number in my requirements
because that doesn't affect its dependency possibly, right? It depends on what it said.
So, I'm a huge fan of PyPI tools. This is actually what I do most of the time.
Yes. PyPI tools is another one. It's great. I think it has this PyPI compile
command that will take as an input, I think, just about any Python manifest type that's out there.
So, you can do setup.py, requirements.txt. I'm forgetting the other ones.
The pipenv.loc maybe.
Setup.cfg, pyproject.toml. It just recognizes all the different ways people could express
their loose requirements, the manifest files. Yeah. So, yeah.
Yeah. I really like it. And you can say, "PyP compile upgrade," and it'll look at all the
dependencies and upgrade them all as high as they can go. But what's nice about that is,
you'll be working for a while, then you choose, "Well, let me just do a refresh on the dependencies
right now and repin them and see how that works," and then just carry on with your business for a
while, right? And it'll manage that transitive closure as well with actually a really nice
lock file where it describes, "These are all the things in the lock file." And the reason that,
for example, in your blog post, you say, "They're certified, this version," and it's there because
you asked for it and because request needs it. If you're like, "Why is this in my virtual
environment? Why do I have this weird thing that I don't know?" It'll tell you, "Here's why it's
there." Yeah. Yeah. One of the downsides, though, I think pip tools has this issue. I know pip does,
is that in determining that transitive dependency resolution, it is very possible,
in fact, it usually happens that you have arbitrary code execution on your system, right?
If you start with the two top-level dependencies, like you mentioned, and it lists dependencies,
well, then it'll pull those in and it acquires the metadata from the wheel if that exists.
But if it doesn't, it'll build the package just to get the metadata file,
just to figure out which dependencies that needs. And so you end up-
Are you saying I should set up a Docker container to execute this?
Yeah. That's kind of what's happening.
Maybe I should. Yeah.
Yeah. Running in a sandbox is another option, right? That's what my company, Phylum, that's one
of the solutions we offer. We have extensions for our CLI where you can wrap pip by just calling
Phylum pip, and then everything runs in a sandbox. So that's another solution.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I mean, pip is a funny one because they even have a command line option
called dry run, tac-tac dry run, which you would think, "Oh, nothing's going to happen on my
system." It's just-
Separate running code from strangers on the internet.
But it does. Yes. Dry run, even using dry run for pip install and pip download commands
will or has the possibility of downloading and running arbitrary code from strangers on the
internet. Yeah.
If we had, oh, like wheels came along far after pip, right? And we've got the source distributions
and setup.py and all that kind of stuff. And so if wheels existed from day one, it very well
may be the case that this is not a problem, right? But what is pip supposed to do? It has to
evaluate this dynamic thing to figure out what it wants in a sense.
Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Wheels are great because they have a metadata file in there that clearly
lays out what the dependencies are. And there's no arbitrary code running when you install a wheel.
It's just extracting and copying. A wheel is just a zip file. You extract that zip file and then
copy the contents to various locations. But yes, as you said, because we've had source distributions,
tarballs, and then even eggs before that, and probably never going to fully get rid of those,
it just takes one. One dependency anywhere in your chain that is only distributed as a source
distribution before now you're downloading and building a package just to get metadata to
continue.
And maybe you didn't actually choose that, right? It's the dependency of a dependency
of a dependency.
Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. That's, yeah. Yeah. People often respond to some of the findings our company
has where we'll post these malicious packages with all sorts of crazy names. And people will
respond to say, why would I install that? Why would I ever install this random package that
no one's heard of? It's like, well, you wouldn't. But it could be included in the transit dependencies.
Right? If it gets added to a slightly more legitimate package or worked up the chain that
way, then yes, eventually you'll be running it unknowingly.
Yeah. I think there's two important things we should talk about this before we move on,
because there are some interesting ways in which you might unknowingly, you might even try to do
the right thing and you might actually shoot yourself in the foot by doing so. So number one,
these super strict lock files are awesome when you're building an application. I want to ship
talk, Python training out. It's got a strict API as it runs on this version. It uses that
version of Pydantic, that version of Beanie and whatever. I want that to be fixed, fixed,
zero flexibility until I decide to maybe a pip compile update or whatever I want a new one.
However, if I was building a library that someone else was using, I would do them many headaches
and a disservice to say, I depend on Pydantic 2.7.0. You're like, well, my other library needs
Pydantic 8.8 and I can't use it and your library together. So you need the, it's a different story
when you're building a library that others are going to consume than it is when you're building
an application. And there was some disagreement, I guess, about the recommendation of pipenv for a
while. And it's because I believe the pipenv is really focused on the application side. And it,
I don't think it was made super clear that maybe it doesn't make as much sense for libraries.
Right. So you want to speak to that a little? Yeah. Yeah. I'm an advocate for lock files for
everyone. Right. Applications for sure, but also libraries and their developers. Right. Cause
if when you distribute a library, sure. Loose dependencies is probably the way to go there.
But library developers, people who want to contribute to your projects,
the developers themselves, maybe you work on a team, having a lock file alongside
your library is still going to be useful. Right. Like, yeah. Cause that way you can say everyone,
if somebody makes a change or they report a bug or whatever, they're not bringing in a change from a
different version of a dependency or like maybe something changed. Right. Yes. Yes. Yeah. And
then, and it, plus it still allows you to start from a known good spot. And then maybe, maybe if
you know you want to get the latest, then you can do it in a controlled environment,
like a sandbox or maybe a CI in a throwaway runner that has no access to any secrets or
sensitive. I hadn't really thought about having a specific requirements lock file type of thing
for the libraries that I've been working on for the developers. Right. For people who want to
contribute because it's just been like a loose requirement so that people that built against it
aren't pinned into some very specific thing. But yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I think.
Yeah. There's a, there's a link in that blog posts. It's kind of dated now, but it's from
the folks who built yarn, you know, JavaScript ecosystem, but they had, they say it a lot more
eloquently than I can. Yeah. That's the one. Lock files should be committed. On all projects. Yeah.
It's, I mean, it's a bit old now, but they, they go down the lists and spell it out a lot more
clearly than me about why libraries even can benefit from, from publishing a lock file.
Yeah. People can check that out. That's cool. Yeah. And Java, that's the JavaScript package
manager. So in JavaScript years, like a hundred years or something, it's been a couple of years.
That's right.
You got dog years, you got JavaScript years, JavaScript years just tick by like second,
the second hand. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Cool. So I see we're making great progress here. Our
list of things to talk about here. I've gone through three and I like 15 left. We'll have
plenty of time. So yeah, let's see. So another one, another PEP I think we're talking about
here is 517, a build system, independent format for source trees. I have no idea what this is.
What is this?
Yeah. Pep 517 and 518 kind of go together. This is, this was like the transition away from
setup.py towards pyproject.toml. 518 is the one that specifies pyproject.toml
kind of things that go in it. And then 517 is all about build systems and build backends.
So like in your pyproject.toml and your build system key, you'll often see things like poetry
core or flit or hatchling or these kinds of things. And so it's 517 is specifying what it means to be
one of those build backends. It's really just defining two mandatory hooks. What does it mean
to build wheel and build sdist? There's three optional hooks as well. And I think there's even
another PEP that followed on from this that talks about building editable packages or-
Right. The dash E equivalence.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. But really it just boils down to
defining a way to build a wheel and build a source distribution.
Yeah. And this is part of what opened up all the different choices we now have for package
management and things like that, right? Because now there's a common way they can all work together.
A little bit like WSGI.
Yes. Yeah.
Yeah. I've been using hatchling for my build backend recently and it's been working real
nicely.
Okay. Yeah. I was just looking at hatchling the other day and they've got- Yeah. Yeah.
They're one of the build backends that offers build hooks, which- So prior to pyproject.toml
and wheels and bdus_wheels and you go back to the source distributions and your setup.py files,
where it's just Python code. You can be doing anything in your setup.py file,
which runs when you install the package. Well, now we're starting to see methods to do the same
thing in these more modern packaging or build backend. So like hatch has their
build hooks, build system hooks where you can point it to, I think, yeah, just Python code and
have it run as part of the build.
Yeah. At least it only runs at build time, not install time. Right?
I'm looking at the documentation now. Yeah. This is still new to me, but there might be
hooks for install as well.
Okay. While you're thinking about it, one of the things, I got a couple of questions I want to
highlight from the audience here, but also one of the things that I think maybe was considered,
I have no awareness of this, but if it wasn't, it would be excellent is what if the people at pip
just pre-computed all that metadata from, at least for the common platforms that you would get,
that pip needs to download, run setup.py and then throw it away just to get that data.
Like for Mac, Windows, and Linux, if it would just go, okay, we're just going to, as you upload it,
it would just kick off a job that does that on those three platforms and puts it in a JSON blob.
It seems like that would be worthwhile.
I'm fairly certain there's discussions already around that type of a solution and maybe even a
PEP for proposal for it, but yeah, getting away from having to build a package just to get metadata.
You got packages that are downloaded billions of times with a B, it's insane.
And if somebody could do that three times instead of a billion times,
it would make it work faster and it would also make it safe. Right? I think it'd be great.
All right. A couple of questions here. This one. So Tony on the audience says,
pip compiles great for finding your transitive dependencies. One interesting thing that they've
done is package up code with pants build, which supports locks files just to look through what
code gets packaged up. Is this anything you've explored?
I've heard of pants. I haven't looked into it myself yet.
Okay. Yeah. So just use it like, okay, you're going to have to build this thing and give me
a little manifest and whatnot. And then we can just look at that. That's cool. And then Tamir
says, do you have a solution for taking already locked dependencies with you when you start a new
app? I'm guessing, you know, maybe, yeah, I don't know. I guess maybe you've already got a project
you're working on and you want to say like, I want this project to use that. Probably you could
just copy the lock file. Right? Yeah. Yeah. If you, I mean, if you really, I mean, really,
you're going to, if you start a new project or new application, you're going to, you're going
to have new manifest file, you know, pyproject.toml, maybe you have the same dependencies,
the top level dependencies or not, but the, the fully resolved set of dependencies that makes up
your lock file that, that can very easily be different. So I'm not exactly sure how you just
poured over one to another. One more bit from Tony. And this is something that I now remember
from pants is this, if it just looks through your code and if you use the import statement,
regardless of whether you've put it in your requirements files, it'll figure out what
your requirements files should have been. If you were a bad developer, basically,
that's cool. Just to see what it uses. Yeah. Nice. All right. On to the next thing,
specify in PEP 5 1 8, specifying minimum build system requirements for Python projects.
Yeah. This is pyproject.toml. This is the, this is the, the PEP for that.
There's not much to it other than to say that they've settled on that name,
rejected a bunch of other possibilities. And then they've got the, you know, the,
the few entries that are required, like for your, your finding your build system.
Yeah. You don't have to have a pyproject.toml for Python, but if you're building a Python library
and you don't want to use setup.py, then you're much better off having a pyproject.toml, right?
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. It's more in the library side that it, I mean, it's not that you can't use it
on an application, but it's more required on the library side. Yeah. That's the thing. All right.
So let's talk about some of the ways in which your packages might go wrong. We've already
talked about typosquatting and we also talked about everything that's different. Yeah. But yeah,
new typosquatting is, it is tricky. I think it's pretty well understood at this, this point,
but maybe just tell people real quick to cover that base, you know?
Sure. Type of typosquatting is, is, you know, publishing a package with a name that's similar,
but not the same as, as a, as a existing known good package. Right. So like, instead of requests,
maybe you, you get request without the S or, you know, one that gets me, cause I,
cause I make the type of all the time was, is the cryptography package. Like, like if I, you know,
if I put you on the spot, would you know how to spell cryptography? I always get the first couple
of letters, you know, jumbled up a bit and, and there have been malicious packages published and
then taken down with, with you know, spelled C-R-P-Y instead of C-R-Y-P, cryptography. Right.
Yeah. But, but the idea is that, you know you, you can overlook a package cause it looks like a,
it looks like a good one. It's not necessarily that you're going to, you're going to install
it because you type it wrong. Although that is, that is, you know, one technique, right?
The drive by installs where someone just bat fingers the package name. But really having a
typo squatted package is going to allow these threat actors to be a little more stealthy
in their inclusion of that package in, in legitimate code reviews and commits and
dependencies of dependencies. Right. And so the other, the other thing that goes with
typo squatting, I don't know if I had a link for you there yet is, is star jacking. So
a lot of times if you're going to typo squat on a known good package, okay, there it is.
You know, these, these, these threat actors, they just, they just straight up copy the known
good project, right. It's just clone the repository and then change the package name.
And, and then when they, when they post the package to PyPI, for instance, the metadata
that goes with the package still exists, right. So on PyPI for a given package, you can see on
the left-hand side, it shows like some, some statistics. If, if the URL was given to like a
GitHub hosted project, for instance, it'll go in there and tell you how many stars.
Right, right, right. That's actually a signal that it seems like it should be good, right. It'll have.
Yeah. That's what star jacking is doing is just copying the metadata of a known good package.
So that on first look, yeah, there you go. You can see.
I did pull that pytest and it says statistics, GitHub statistics, 11,000 stars,
2000 forks. Okay. This is legit. Let's install it.
Right. So I could go clone pytest repository right now, change the name to pytest spelled P-I-T-E-S-T.
And then, and then push the math version of testing. Yeah. And you're going to get these
same statistics and you're going to get the same maintainers that you see if you scroll down a
little bit in the, the metadata. Yeah. So you get the maintainers list, all of that metadata that
you, you, you enter in your pyproject.toml or setup.py file gets read here on PyPI and just,
just publish. So you can, you can fake people out, right?
Yeah. That's actually really, okay. Well, there's a new terrifying thing that I hadn't thought about.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so star jacking and typosquatting where you just take a known good package, clone
it, and then maybe you, you make a change to you know, existing function, you know, the function
does what it's supposed to do, but it also does some other stuff like ship off secrets from your,
your CI server or you know, It could lay dormant and wait for some sort of production environment
and grab some SSH keys or something terrible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's, that's the
other, the other dependency confusion. Okay. That's the next one you've got up.
Yeah. This is the one we kind of talked, it's similar to what we talked about before with,
I can't remember, but I said, there's, there's, we're going to come back to this. So here,
here it is again, this is a dependency confusion where if you get the wrong version or the wrong
name, it could actually, you try to be safe by having a white listed list or say, well, it's,
it's, so this is one where it's the same, same package name, different source of where you
acquire that package. So this is you'll, these attacks are mostly like companies, enterprises,
yeah. Yeah. So it's an artifactory and we, we only put our stuff there and we're,
we're going to call it like, you know, international company underscore data access.
That's right. And, and it's, and it's, and it's tricky because if you don't know, like if you
don't have your build system set up in a way, and then your CI server set up in a way to install
your dependencies in the proper order, like excluding public registries first, and only
looking for packages in your private registry, then it's very easy, especially with pip, which
defaults to looking on PyPI, the public registry first, and then only falling back to your, your
extra index URL specifications. Secondly, that if you, if someone had the knowledge or just guessed
at the package name that you had published on your internal registry, and then they made their
own package, the same name, but put it on PyPI, that's the one that's going to get installed.
And there was like a whole series of, you know, bug bounties that were claimed over this back a
few years ago, because people just went around, you know, guessing at internal package names,
or maybe they used to work there or new people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Just to share your requirements at TXT with me. Right. Right. Right. Right.
You know, it's, it's kind of, it's extra sneaky because it only affects people. It only affects
people who are going out of their way to be more secure, right? They're going out of their way to
say, we're only going to, we're going to actually set up a whole server and we're going to whitelist
a bunch of stuff. You can only ask for the names of the things on this server and, ah, you know.
Yes. And that, that might still work if you limit it to your internal registry only, or a mirror,
perhaps, of, of the, the public registries.
What do you think about that? It's pretty easy to create your own internal copy,
download a bunch of extra ones and mirror them locally and say like,
these are the ones that are pre-approved at our company. Nothing else.
Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I've worked in a environment where that's exactly what we did. And,
I think there is merit to that. You just have to know that anything you're mirroring
to the trusted internal network is in fact secure. You know?
Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I think, you know, it doesn't really make sense except for a few,
very rare cases to say you cannot use external dependencies.
Right. Right.
You're just saying what we want is to not build software, but while the rest of the world does,
you know, because that's part of the magic. We just saw there's over half a million libraries
you can choose from. When you say we have zero of those, you're really, really constraining
the type of software and the velocity at which you can build.
Yeah. Yeah. It reminds me of, there's that line, you know, like, why, why do you rob banks?
Because they have the money.
Because that's where the money is. Right. It's like, well, why do attackers,
why are attackers going after open source software now? Like, well, that's, that's where
it's easiest to get arbitrary code to run. That's where developers are. That's what.
That's what to be fair though. It's not only, it's not only right. There's SolarWinds,
which really had almost nothing to do with open source, but it had to do with CI/CD systems and
other sneakiness. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And got into places that, you know, instead of getting into
libraries, you get into the build system and you just give it a little extra, a little extra include
tag there, bringing that deal out. Like you said, right. So dependency and confusion is sneaky
because you're asking for a local version off a local server. It doesn't exist on PyPI, but if it
could be made to exist on PyPI, all of a sudden that gets installed. That's potentially, that's
not good.
Potentially. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, that's, that's how it works in all the, in all the default
cases. And it's, it's pretty tricky actually to, to exclude, to do it in the correct order and
exclude those public registries.
Yeah. What's what I do to help this is I just, I just run the UUID command to get one of those
16 digit arbitrary X things. And I just name all my libraries that, and so it's like, oh, you have
the F3DC. That's the API one. That's right. That's that, right. No one is going to do this.
It's such a safe space. I tell you. All right. Onto the next one.
That, that would work.
Expired author domains. This is super sneaky.
Yeah. Yeah. So this is one, you know, it, it might be less of a factor now. I think,
I think it was just earlier this month that PyPI enforced two factor authentication for
all their users. But a lot of sites and, you know, even PyPI, I think before this month,
have, you know, password reset features where if, if you lose access to your account or you
forget your password, just, you know, send me an email, reset your password. But it's,
it's, it's very possible that people, you know, years ago submitted a package. They,
they don't maintain it anymore. They submitted it under an old email account that has expired.
Right. Maybe they had some domain. Yeah. Special doesn't work that well for Gmail or Outlook.
You had a custom domain and as would be awesome. Have your own, you know,
Michael@talkpython.fm that kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Say you, you win the lottery and,
and you know, decide to put your job. Yeah. Then you let your domain expire and
well, maybe there's still a linkage for the talk Python domain to PyPI. And then I go and
buy that domain and, you know, request password server. Yeah. Yeah. And then now I, now I can
publish new versions of the packages there. Yeah. Yeah. It's not good. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't really
know what to do about that one, but there's an amazing, amazing joke that I found on Mastodon.
Somebody posted, sit here. It's a two big red buttons. Think Ren and Stimpy or whatever. And
one of the red buttons says, admit to yourself that your dream is dead. The other one says,
pay $12 for domain renewal. Right. I mean, it's funny, but there's plenty of people who will get
a domain and I totally go. And then it's like, you know what? I haven't done anything with that
for like five years. I'm not paying another 12 bucks, but if they had set up an account under
that, right, this is what you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yep. That's why you got to
buy your domains for that a hundred year renewal period. Exactly. Take out that loan. You get your
domain. All right. We're getting short on time here. I want to, let me, let's just go through.
I'll just list off a few real quick. Maybe we do lighten round. Okay. Okay. Unverifiable dependency.
Okay. These are for specifying dependencies that are not necessarily published to PyPI, right? So
that maybe you're pointing to a GitHub repository. You know, pip calls these VCS project URLs. You
know, if you, if you look in there, their help output. Yeah. It's like pip installed Git plus
HTTP to a thing that has a project. And that, and that thing, it can point to a repository.
Maybe it points to a tag. Maybe it points to a branch. None of that is stable, right? Like you,
the tag could change out from under you or the code that's related to that tag could change
out from under you. The code at the branch you're pointing to could change while the name remains
the same. So, you know, those are, those are, those are risky for that reason, right? If you're
not pinning to a very specific version or a very specific hash, right. If you're going to point to
a repository or a Git URL. Yeah. Make sure it's true. I've gotten to feel a lot of times like
the hash is maybe a little bit redundant given the immutability of PyPI. But if you're pointing
at something like this, then maybe all of a sudden you really do want that. For sure. Yeah. Okay.
Repo jacking. Yeah. This is similar to the expired author domain, right? So if someone was,
you know, pointing to one of those Git dependencies, a VCS project URL as pip calls it,
and you know, that account went dormant or expired, relinquished, whatever,
and someone else took it over, then yeah, they can now, they can now dictate what's there. Yeah.
Yeah, exactly. People are requiring. All right. And then maybe last bit, get a chance to talk a
bit about your Phylum CI project. I do want to point out really quick though, that Phylum was
a sponsor of the show a while ago, but this is not a sponsored episode. This is just, you and I had
been talking prior to that actually, and decided to like put the show together. So just to be clear,
but let's talk about this, what this project you guys got anyway. Yeah. Yeah. So you can pip install
Phylum right now, or like I prefer PipX, PipX install Phylum. Yeah. I love PipX. It's awesome.
Yeah, me too. Yeah. I think I heard about it from you actually.
So the circle goes. Yeah. Yes. Yes. So this package, it does two main things. One is it can,
it'll expose us to entry points. One of them is called Phylum init, and that'll get you the Phylum
command line interface written in Rust, but installed with Python. It'll get you the Phylum
CLI locally. And then the other one is, it's called Phylum CI. That's just a catch all entry
point. The thing that gets exposed through our Docker container to handle almost all of our
integrations. So if you want to monitor your PRs on GitHub, for instance, we've got an integration
for that. So the idea is basically that I could set this up in GitHub, a PR comes in, I could set
up an action, Phylum will scan it for known mischievousness and make that part of the PR,
or maybe even block it out, right? Yeah, exactly. It'll fail your build if you don't pass your
default policy or established policy on any of your given lock files or manifests. We deal with
manifests as well. And you mentioned GitHub. So even with GitHub, we went a step further. We have
an app as well. So you don't even have to modify a workflow. You could just install a GitHub app and
automatically monitor your repositories. But a lot of the other ecosystems don't have that. So we
just provide Docker containers. I love the Docker container. So you use Docker run against your code
or whatever. Yeah. And then there's even a pre-commit hook we expose as well. Nice.
I genuinely don't know the answer to this question. Does this cost money?
No. Anyone can sign up for free. There's a community edition where you can have up to
five projects. Okay, cool. You guys have to eat. There must be some way you charge for something.
Oh, exactly. Yeah. So there's the paid version, right? Which, you know, unlimited projects,
you get access to group-based management. You know, there's a few extra features. It's a
freemium model. A little more of a Teams, enterprise-y angle. Yeah. But for this audience,
I would love if everyone just went that little extra step of securing their open source software
and go with the free option. I'm not trying to sell you anything here. Just
monitor your manifest, your lock files, make sure that you remain secure and not exposing
your secrets. Because that's what we're finding now, is that developers are the new high-value
targets. That's what attackers want to go after because we know that developers,
they have the secrets. They've got the keys. We write the code that then gets run on the
production server inside the firewalls. Yeah. We have all the access, all the secrets, all the
keys. So, you know, if you can find a way to get arbitrary code from strangers to run on developer
systems, you're going to have a much better chance. We have a good time. Yeah. We have a good time.
I thought I mean having a bad time. Right. Yeah. Doing bad things. Okay. Let's not do that.
Awesome. Well, excellent work. I think probably we'll kind of just leave it there. We're pretty
much out of time for the rest of the stuff, but close it out for us, Charlie. People are, maybe
both have a few new tools to work with, but also techniques, but maybe also a little freaked out.
What do you tell them? I recommend everyone to restrict their use of dependencies to lock files.
And then carefully gate, regard the inclusion of new lock files or updates of existing ones,
or sorry, dependencies in those lock files with careful analysis. Don't allow arbitrary code to
run anywhere in your development process and give filing a try. You know, we've got the free
community edition. We will provide that analysis and ensure that you don't have malware running on
your system through bad dependencies. Awesome. All right. Well, it's been very interesting and
a lot of new things to think about. So thanks for being here. Thank you, Michael. Yep. See you later.
This has been another episode of Talk Python to Me. Thank you to our sponsors. Be sure to check
out what they're offering. It really helps support the show. Take some stress out of your life. Get
notified immediately about errors and performance issues in your web or mobile applications with
Sentry. Just visit talkpython.fm/sentry and get started for free. And be sure to use the promo
code Talk Python, all one word. Mailtrap, an email delivery platform that developers love. Use their
email sandbox to inspect and debug emails in staging, dev, and QA environments before sending
them to recipients in production. Try Mailtrap for free at talkpython.fm/mailtrap. Want to level
up your Python? We have one of the largest catalogs of Python video courses over at Talk Python.
Our content ranges from true beginners to deeply advanced topics like memory and async. And best
of all, there's not a subscription in sight. Check it out for yourself at training.talkpython.fm.
Be sure to subscribe to the show. Open your favorite podcast app and search for Python.
We should be right at the top. You can also find the iTunes feed at /itunes, the Google Play feed
at /play, and the Direct RSS feed at /rss on talkpython.fm. We're live streaming most of
our recordings these days. If you want to be part of the show and have your comments featured on the
air, be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel at talkpython.fm/youtube. This is your host,
Michael Kennedy. Thanks so much for listening. I really appreciate it. Now get out there and
write some Python code. [Music]
[Music]
[ better right now ]